Fix snapd growpart and final message warnings (#5215)
canonical/cloud-init: doc/rtd/explanation/format.rst

User data formats
*****************

> User data is opaque configuration data provided by a platform to an instance at
> launch to perform supplemental configuration operations on that instance at
> first boot. User data that will be acted upon by ``cloud-init`` must be in one
> of the following types.

Reviewer: This feels more verbose than it needs to be. I think that we could probably strike some words to be more succinct without loosing the important bits:

```suggestion
User data is configuration data provided by a platform to an instance at
launch to configure the instance. User data can be one of the following types.
```

Author: Who'd have though less words, more clear meaning :). Thanks for these suggestions.

.. _user_data_formats-cloud_config:

Cloud config data
=================

Cloud-config is the preferred user data format. The cloud config format is a
declarative syntax which uses `YAML version 1.1`_ with keys which describe
desired instance state. Cloud-config can be used to define how an instance
should be configured in a human-friendly format.

These things may include:

- performing package upgrades on first boot
- configuration different package mirrors or sources
- initial user or group setup

> - importing certain SSH keys or host keys to configure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- importing certain SSH keys or host keys
```

- *and many more...*

.. note::

>    This file must be valid `YAML 1.1`_ syntax.

Reviewer: I know you didn't write this line, but while we're touching this line can we please update it to something that makes a little more sense?

The file isn't a syntax. YAML isn't a syntax either. YAML is a standardized language for defining data objects, and it has a syntax for describing these data objects as a stream of characters. Cloud-config is a format which uses the YAML syntax described in specification version 1.1 and a set of keys defined [in the jsonschema](https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/blob/main/cloudinit/config/schemas/schema-cloud-config-v1.json).

> This file ...

Additionally, this configuration is often times not even a file. Users may copy-paste a cloud-config into a web interface, for example, and ultimately on the instance they usually do not write a configuration file, so the mention of it being a file may be misleading to some.

Perhaps this paragraph:

> Cloud-config is the simplest way to accomplish some things via user data.
> Using cloud-config syntax, the user can specify certain things in a
> human-friendly format.

Could be updated to say something like:

> Cloud-config is the preferred user data format. The cloud config format is a 
> declarative syntax which uses YAML version 1.1 with [keys](https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/blob/main/cloudinit/config/schemas/schema-cloud-config-v1.json) that describe instance
> state. Cloud-config can be used to define how an instance should be configured in
> a human-friendly format.

And then remove the `This file must be ...` note?

.. note::
   Cloud config data can also render cloud instance metadata variables using

>    ref:`jinja templates <instancedata-Using>`.

Reviewer: I still think that these notes under each section [aren't the best way to present meta-formats for user-data](https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/issues/4739 ). However, until that issue gets implemented incremental improvements are welcome, +1.

``cloud-init`` from processing user data.

.. _make-mime: https://github.com/canonical/cloud-init/blob/main/cloudinit/cmd/devel/make_mime.py

> .. _YAML 1.1: https://yaml.org/spec/1.1/current.html

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. _YAML version 1.1: https://yaml.org/spec/1.1/current.html
```
